All right, now let's cut up
the actual reset page.
What we're going to do is we're actually just
going to manually pass the token in via the query param
and then in the next video when you do emailing,
we'll obviously auto-generate that via URL.
So we need a separate page because the reset
is going to be passed like I said via the query param.
So we need to go into our pages directory here
and we'll make a new file
and we'll call it reset.js, lowercase r.
Export default function, reset page and then return a div.
And inside of that div, we need our reset component.
Let's just say a paragraph tag, reset your password.
Now if I go to forward slash reset, it's there.
And then I'm going to pass
the token in via query param.
So if I go here and say reset token is equal to that,
then we should be able to access
that token via the page props.
Previously, we've been using use router
but let's just take a look at the,
what the props are here.
Props log props, go here.
There we go, query token.
So that's another way to get values from the URL.
Is that if you're at a page level,
you can get them via props.
So we can de-structure the query
and then let's just try to put reset your password
and we'll put the query.token in there good.
So that's showing up.
One more thing is if somebody tries
to go to the reset page directly,
we should probably check if there is a token.
So if there is no query token,
so if there's no query or there's no query.token,
nice little question mark I love that.
Return just a paragraph, sorry you must supply a token
and we could even go as far to just
render out the request to reset.
Let's do it, let's do it.
Let's change this to a div and then we could
just say request reset and import that.
And now if I visit this URL
and I don't pass in and it renders out the reset
and then if I do pass a token,
we should render out the actual reset form, cool.
So we'll go back into our components folder here
and make a new file.
Actually, let's keep going from what we had last time
because this stuff is very much the same.
So request reset, save a copy
and we'll just call it reset.js
and the reset is going to take a few things.
So we have our email, we have our password
and then we also have the token that gets passed.
Then we'll go down here and duplicate this.
Actually, we can just go to our signup
component and grab the password label.
I'll put it in here okay.
Now, let's render out this reset component
so we can see what we're working with.
So we'll get a reset js, go here.
Reset and oh, it's not auto importing because
we didn't rename the component.
Reset, here we go.
Now, go here and see if we can auto import it.
Not showing up, that's fine.
We'll just duplicate this color reset.
Here we go.
Request a password reset.
And then I guess this now needs to say reset
your password okay.
Next, I think we should do the actual mutation.
So the mutation is going to just be called,
not request but just simply reset mutation.
And the method that we call is going
to be called redeem user password reset token
that takes in the email, but it also
takes in the token which will be our token variable.
We have to actually pass those and the password as well,
which will be oops,
just password which is our password variable.
Then we can go in here and modify this.
So we need email, we need password
and we need the token.
So we have this mutation takes in three things,
calls redeem, password reset, passes at these
three arguments.
Back from there, you either get a code and or a message
or nothing if it's successful.
We have our function with our use form.
Then we have our mutation.
We've updated that to reset mutation here.
You don't need any of these here.
So we can just get rid of that then we have our submit here.
Actually, this can be renamed to reset.
It doesn't matter what it's called
because we're just restructuring the first item
but obviously not sign up that's not what it's called.
Reset your password then successfully is going
to be if data.redeem user password token
is equal to no success.
You can now sign in.
Actually, we're going to change that in just a second,
but you can keep it like that for now.
So I have my token.
Now, if I want to update it.
So it wesbos@gmail.com.
My new password will be dogs1234.
I'm gonna open up my dev tools.
Just make sure if any errors happen I see them.
There we go.
It looks like it's successfully reset data, there we go.
Oh, no, there we go.
There's an error.
So we didn't properly catch that error
because it looks like the error was not
coming into this one.
So remember that way we did it previously
where sometimes the error will come back.
So what we'll have to do
is not de-structure the error here.
And what we'll do is we'll make an error variable
So say const error is equal
to if the data.redeem password reset token.
I can put a question mark on the end there.
If that has a code, then our error will be that.
Otherwise, it is going to just be undefined.
There is no error and then we'll pass it to here.
I'm gonna console log the error
to see if we actually have an error.
It says undefined, okay.
Something went wrong.
If data.redeemuserpasswordresettoken.code,
then the error is this thing with a code
and a message otherwise it's undefined.
So it's logs is undefined,
maybe we have to try it again.
So it was at wesbos@gmail.com, test.
Here we go.
Shoot the email value you provided
didn't identify any users.
Okay, good.
Now, if I do pass my proper
email address with my new password dogs1234,
we should see invalid token mismatch.
Yeah the auth token provided is incorrect.
Okay, good, so we did that.
The reason why that's throwing is because we're actually
not passing the token along for the ride.
What we did here is we are assuming
that the token here is in the form,
but what we can do is we can actually
just stick the token that we get in the page in there.
And the way that we're going to do that
is we'll go to our reset page, here we go.
We'll say the token is equal to query.token
So I'll pass it into our reset function
or reset component then we'll de-structure
that token here and then we'll pass that token
to our state and when the form submits,
that token should be passed along for the ride
via our variables which happens right here.
So let's try it again wesbos@gmail.com.
My new password will be dogs1234,
go ahead and request a reset.
Our token has expired.
Oh man, this is great though (laughs).
It's showing us that our error handling is actually working
for all the different situations.
Okay, good.
So the fact that that has expired
means that I need to go back to the sign in page.
So I'll go to sign in actually
and I request a password reset, success.
Check your email for a link.
We don't have that set up yet, but here it is.
Here's the new token.
Then I'll go back there and put the new
token in the URL bar.
Now let's try it dogs 123,
value must be at least eight characters long.
Okay, cool.
Oh man so it also is throwing an error.
This is a bit odd that the error in keystone sometimes
is successfully error and then also sometimes
the error is being thrown which we catch
in our using mutation.
So I'll show you how to handle that.
It's a little bit odd
but that's the way the cookie crumbles.
Sometimes software is like that
and you got to account for it.
So we will de-structure the error from here
and then we'll make a new variable here called
successful error (laughs).
Let's call it that so we know how silly it is.
So we have an error or a successful error.
And then here, what we can do is we can pass
the error or the successful error
and what that will do is it will just pass the error.
If there is one otherwise it will try to pass
the successful error which might be undefined.
So I'll give that a save and let's try it now.
wesbos@gmail.com 123 short password too short.
It should error out here we go.
Our tokens are single use and the, oh, no.
So I gotta go get another one.
All right, here we go wesbos@gmail.com.
Cool as my new token placed it in
wesbos@gmail.com wes wes wes
Oh no, I'm going to do it just Wes.
So it's short there we go.
So now we actually caught the throne error
which is shoot password minimum length must
be at least eight characters long.
So I think now if we try to reset it again,
they're only single use.
That seems weird because like what if it errors out
I'll log an issue with keystone that I don't think
that should be the case.
I think that you should be able to have a couple shots
that are actually doing it with your password reset
because now we've got to go back to my email.
I think that stops people from having okay.
There's my new token, put it in there.
Let's wesbos@gmail.com.
Now I'm gonna do just Wes Wes Wes again, success.
You can now sign in.
Whew, we did it.
All right so that is the password reset flow
on the client side.
Last thing we need to do now
is the server side of sending email
and we'll hit that in the next video.